=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Crypt::PKCS11 - Mutex Callbacks

=head1 WARNING

Untested code and unknown affect to the Perl VM.

=head1 SYNPOSIS

  use threads;
  use threads::shared;
  use Crypt::PKCS11;

  my %mutex :shared;
  my $mutexCounter :shared;
  $mutexCounter = 0;

  my $pkcs11 = Crypt::PKCS11->new;
  $pkcs11->load(...);
  $pkcs11->Initialize({
      CreateMutex => sub {
          my $mutexID = $mutexCounter++;
          my $lock = 0;

          $mutex{$mutexID} = shared_clone($lock);

          return $mutexID;
      },
      DestroyMutex => sub {
          my ($mutexID) = @_;
          my $mutex = $mutex{$mutexID};

          if (defined $mutex) {
              lock($mutex);
              delete $mutex{$mutexID};
          }

          return defined $mutex ? CKR_OK : CKR_GENERAL_ERROR;
      },
      LockMutex => sub {
          my ($mutexID) = @_;
          my $mutex = $mutex{$mutexID};

          if (defined $mutex) {
              lock($mutex);
              while ($mutex) {
                  cond_wait($mutex);
              }
              $mutex = threads->tid;
          }

          return defined $mutex ? CKR_OK : CKR_GENERAL_ERROR;
      },
      UnlockMutex => sub {
          my ($mutexID) = @_;
          my $mutex = $mutex{$mutexID};

          if (defined $mutex) {
              unless ($mutex == threads->tid) {
                  return CKR_GENERAL_ERROR;
              }
              lock($mutex);
              $mutex = 0;
              cond_signal($mutex);
          }

          return defined $mutex ? CKR_OK : CKR_GENERAL_ERROR;
      }
  });
  ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

PKCS #11 supports setting callbacks for handling mutex and in the C library they
can be set per loaded PKCS #11 library but there is no context pointer supplied
to the C callback functions so there is no portable way to related to the
relevant Perl callbacks and therefor all these callbacks are global. Setting
them once will affect all loaded PKCS #11 libraries.

=head1 CALLBACKS

=over 4

=item $mutexID = CreateMutex

A callback to a function to use for creating mutex objects which must return a
numeric scalar with an unique ID for the mutex. This will be used to refer to
the mutex in the other callbacks.

=item DestroyMutex ($mutexID)

A callback to a function to use for destroying mutex objects.

=over 4

=item $mutexID

The unique mutex ID of the mutex to destroy.

=back

=item LockMutex ($mutexID)

A callback to a function to use for locking mutex objects.

=over 4

=item $mutexID

The unique mutex ID of the mutex to lock.

=back

=item UnlockMutex ($mutexID)

A callback to a function to use for unlocking mutex objects.

=over 4

=item $mutexID

The unique mutex ID of the mutex to unlock.

=back

=back

=head1 NOTE

Derived from the RSA Security Inc. PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface (Cryptoki)

=head1 LICENSE

  Copyright (c) 2015 Jerry Lundström <lundstrom.jerry@gmail.com>
  Copyright (c) 2015 .SE (The Internet Infrastructure Foundation)
  All rights reserved.

  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
  are met:
  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
  DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
  DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
  GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER
  IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
  OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
  IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
